it is recommended that direct ignition
coil boots or COP boats be replaced any
time you change your spark plugs as with
all vehicle electrical system work it is
highly recommended that you disconnect
the battery to avoid any electrical
events procedures vary based on the make
and model of the vehicle this
demonstration is being performed on a
2012 Ford e-150 4.6 liter eight cylinder
single overhead cam engine your first
step is locating the direct ignition
coil then determine the easiest way to
access them for replacement
on this vehicle access to the rear four
cylinders is easiest from the interior
the engine cover will need to be removed
first push the front seats back as far
as possible then unclip the four
brackets that are holding the cover in
place
next unsnap the knee bolster and set it
to the side
now remove the engine cover
only replace one coil pack at a time
begin by disconnecting the wiring
harness from the coil
using a seven millimeter socket wrench
remove the bolt connecting the coil to
the valve cover
while pulling the coil away from the
spark plug well gently twist to ease the
removal
in a clean area carefully remove the
insulator from the coil body look for
the small springs that also need to be
replaced do not do this over the engine
as some of the smaller parts may be lost
examine the coil body for any signs of
wear or arcing that may indicate a need
to replace the entire unit lay out the
new replacement parts carefully install
onto the coil body while installing make
sure the flat of the body aligns with
the flat of the boot insert the part
back into the spark plug well
bolt the coil to the valve cover
reconnect the wiring harness to the coil
repeat this process for the other three
cylinders from this location one at a
time reinstall the engine cover
snap in the knee bolster
clip the four brackets back into place
to access the front four cylinders begin
by removing the snorkel disconnect the
mass air flow sensor next remove the
intake duct
and the air filter assembly
following the same procedure now replace
the front or exterior coils
you
after replacing all cylinders replace
the air filter assembly and intake duct
connect the mass airflow sensor replace
the snorkel then reconnect the battery
the replacement of your direct ignition
coil boots or COP boots is now complete
you